So thus far we had very simple tests checking if components are trade and so on.
Let's spice it up and let's add a service to our user folder the user users service Dadds TS file in
this file here ival basically export my user service class as you know it.
And in this class I want to have a user object which I can retrieve from my component.
So here I'll have my user and this shell be an object where the name is Max just like that.
That is all.
This is a very very very simple service.
And here my user component it engine in it.
I want to say this user equals.
Well then I need to inject my service here.
So let's inject user service here of type user service as we learn it from the Course as to import appeared
to you.
And then I can say this user service user notes that this is no asynchronous task or anything like this
as it happens synchronously but we do inject something of course for this to work we need to provide
it and we're providing it on this level should be enough.
So providers user service like this what that application should work but how would we make testing
work.
Well we want to get the username from the service.
So let's create a new test for that.
We should use the user name from the service because in our component here we're assigning our user
property to the user from the service.
So that is what I'm testing here.
So again let's write the logic here and I will basically copy that into that years so that I also get
my app.
But now I also somehow want to inject my service.
So how do we forsaid to inject this user service into the component in our testing environment.
Well by creating a user server's variable here whereas say fixture debug element injector to get access
to the Englad to injector get and now a user service which I also need to add as an import at the top
.
What this does is it uses the two injector which exists and which is well part of this component.
We now created and tails it please get me an instance of this user services how we do it.
And as a side note you can learn more about different ways of injecting this in the document in this
article.
I will give you at the end of this module so that the user service year.
And with that user service I can now say that I expect my users service user name to equal the app user
name like that.
And if I saved this it will we execute our tests and we should now see five successful tests but we
don't so we can't read name of undefined what went wrong here.
Well the following went wrong.
We're getting this property from this service because we inject it.
We do this an engine in it but we're missing one thing which happens automatically in the app running
in the browser but not here.
We need to run change detection to update our properties and so on after running does after injecting
the service.
Now we see we get a successful test because now we're trying to access our user name property on the
component after we update it and we need to update it because it isn't in the same state as at the beginning
.
We injected the service and got data from there even though that happened synchronously but it's still
not to state the same state as in well.
Our code here where it is and you find at the beginning well with that now it would be interesting to
see if our NGF thing here works correctly.
So we want to check if we see the user name if we are locked in and if we don't see it if we are not
locked in.
So it is time to create some new tests and we should display the user name if the user is locked in
.
I'd say so let's execute this code here then and I can generally copy the code from the last test here
though.
Now I want to do something different I also want to compile my code.
So are my templates so I will get access or get access to decompile template.
I should say so here I will access my fixture to debug element and there the native element which is
my template.
And then here I want to check if while I expect my compiled template I expect it to have a paragraph
element of course and there the text content is expected to let's say contain the user name cell app
user name that should work but only if we're locked in.
So if I run it right now we see it fails it can't find it because we have Please log in first in our
text because we are not locked in.
So we have to change this.
I actually don't have to access my user service like this anymore.
It will still get injected here but I don't want to access it like I do in the test before so I don't
need to explicitly name it here.
I don't need to retrieve it from the unchecked or I should say it can be done by Englad you automatically
.
And then here instead I want to do something different.
I want to access my app and set is locked in to true in this test so that when I now save it we now
see six successful tests on the other hand I should see something else than the username if I'm not
locked in.
So here we shouldn't display the username.
If user is not locked in.
So hearable get rid of my app is log in overwriting.
I will still detect changes.
But here I expect my text content to not contain this name so not to contain if I save this it should
rerun and now we should have seven successful tests and we do.
And this is how we can test a couple of things and see if our app behaves as intended here.